HAC Mining
Join the mining pool, use GPU, Solo and other ways to participate in mining






Before you start mining for the first time, you need [Create Account](https://wallet.hacash.org?lang=[:=lang.useset:]), used to collect HAC mining rewards.


<a name="fullnode"></a>

## With fullnode to mining

Before starting full node mining, you need to [run full node](/run-full-node) and wait for all block data synchronization to complete.


First of all, you need to configure the full node according to the [Hacash Config Instruction](https://github.com/hacash/doc/tree/main/build/config_description.md), Modify the configuration to enable mining. The `hacash.config.ini` file is a required configuration file for a Hacash full node program and contains various configurations. You need to modify the three parameters under `[miner]` in the configuration file:

<pre class="log cnf">
<b>[miner]</b>
<i>enable</i> = <s>true</s>
<i>reward</i> = <s>1AVRuFXNFi3rdMrPH4hdqSgFrEBnWisWaS</s>
<i>message</i> = <s>unknown</s>
</pre>

Where, delete the semicolon before `enable = true` indicates that mining is started (semicolon ';' indicates that the comment item does not take effect, and the same applies to other item configurations such as HACD mining).

The string value of the `reward` parameter is the account address of Hacash, which is used to receive the monetary rewards generated by mining. This address must be generated through a wallet, in a specific format, using an [online wallet](https://wallet.hacash.org?lang=[:=lang.useset:]), a password that is kept strictly confidential and backed up, or a randomly created private key. `message` is the identifier of the block announcer, which is generally only required for mining pools.

Then, enable the configuration of the API service of the full node, so that the mining terminal can connect to the full node and get the latest mining data and block information:

<pre class="log cnf">
<b>[server]</b>
<i>enable</i> = <s>true</s>
<i>listen</i> = <s>8081</s>
</pre>

<p class="note">Note: Need to wait for the block synchronization to complete, then modify the configuration, and then restart the fullnode for the mining configuration to take effect.</p>

## Start mining

Then, download the `poworker` (HAC PoW miner worker) program for the corresponding operating system in the [Hacash Software Release Center](https://github.com/hacash/fullnode/releases) and follow the instructions in [Hacash Configuration Instructions](https://github.com/hacash/doc/tree/main/build/config_description.md) Modify the configuration of the mining program `poworker.config.ini`:

<pre class="log cnf">
<i>connect</i> = <s>127.0.0.1:8081</s>
<i>supervene</i> = <s>4</s>
</pre>

The `connect` parameter indicates the IP and port of the full node API service to be connected, and the 'supervene' parameter indicates how many threads of mining are enabled at the same time, which is generally consistent with the number of CPU cores on your computer and can exert maximum computing power. For example, if your computer has 2 CPU cores, change `supervene = 8` to `supervene = 2`, if it has 4 cores, change it to `supervene = 4`, and so on. At this point, the computer's CPU utilization is 100%. It is generally recommended to set aside one core for other calculations: 4 cores for 3 cores and 8 cores for 7. It can also be set freely according to your situation, the lower the value, the lower the CPU utilization. This value doesn't support decimals, has a minimum of 1, and isn't recommended to be larger than the number of CPU cores on your PC.

If there are multiple machines mining at the same time on the intranet, multiple devices can be connected to the same full node to establish a computing power cluster.

Run the `hacash_poworker` program from the command line or by double-clicking, and you can see the following prints:

<pre class="cmd">
<b>./hacash_ubuntu_poworker  poworker.config.ini</b>
[Config] Load: /root/rust/rust/poworker.config.ini 2024-09-10 20:44:23.
[Start] Create #4 block miner worker thread.
[09-10 20:44:23] req height 715 target 0000687b33 to mining ... 
1470588 1470588, 0000064cde 0000064cde, ≈288.0000HAC/day 100.000000%, 490.20Kc/s. 

████████████████ [MINING SUCCESS] Find a block height 715,
██ hash 0000064cdee0e8ab50f7212e8b92149b9fbb828965832fe73404a0c824ba098f to submit.
▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔      
</pre>

The `490.20Kc/s` shown at the end of the above print represents the real-time hashrate of the mining machine. WHEN THE FOLLOWING `[MINING SUCCESS]` MESSAGE IS PRINTED, IT INDICATES THAT A BLOCK HAS BEEN MINED SUCCESSFULLY.

More Info:

<pre class="links">
Hacash Mining Tech Development
https://github.com/hacash/doc/tree/main/tech/mining_tech_development_description.md
</pre>
